#summary Featurelist of the BIMserver.org software.
#labels features

= Introduction =

This featurelist is 'work in progress'.


= Base Features =

Import/export IFC - The base of the BIMserver is native IFC.<br/>
IFC Versioning – Go back in time.  See who made which changes and when. Versioning is on IFC objectlevel.<br/>
Change notifications – use the RSS feeds to get warning of changes you are interested in.<br/>
Geolocate models – place your model on a location to create a GIS link (have a look at the export formats).<br/>
Multi-user – get as much users as you like!<br/>
Smart Authentication – only change your own part of the model but be able to read/see the other parts.<br/>
Webbased viewer – Making use of O3D to view the model inside the browser (no download or special software needed).<br/>

= Model Features: =

Merging – Merge submodels into a base model.<br/>
Revision management – Get revisions by sub-projects and main project.<br/>
Change finder – Let the software find changes that were made to the model.<br/>
Filter & Query –  Simple queries like “get only the windows from a model” , or “get one specific wall”.<br/>
Rules and advanced Query – Using Java code to make advanced queries or rules.<br/>
Checkout & update warnings – Get a big warning when model inconsistencies seem to appear.<br/>

= Interfaces: =

Webservice interface – feel free to connect to the SOAP interface.<br/>
Webuserinterface – the only thing you need is a webbrowser to connect to the webinterface.<br/>
REST - every IFC object in the modelserver has its own URL. Use these REST links to connect or get detailled information about a specific object.<br/>

= Export formats: =

ifcXML - Valide ifcXML output.<br/>
CityGML - Export your IFC model tot CityGML, including the GeoBIM extension.<br/>
Collada - Get collada models (easy to import in Sketchup).<br/>
KML -  view your BIM model in Google Earth.<br/>
Google Earth network link – get a URL to directly connect from Google Earth.<br/>

= Extra: =

IFD support – Fill the properties from the IFD library.<br/>
Clash detection – get a list of IFC objects that clash (geometry analysis).<br/>

= Working on (coming as soon as possible): =

Rendering pictures –  Automatically rendering JPG/PNG pictures from every revision of the model.<br/>
gbXML export – needs funding.<br/>
Excel export – needs additional funding.<br/>
OAuth Authentication – needs additional funding.<br/>
COBIE compatibility – needs funding.<br/>
CityGML import - needs funding.<br/>
ifcXML import – needs funding.<br/>