#summary Summary of tests and examples in the source code repository.
#labels Developerguide,UserSupport

= Introduction =

Goal of this page is to explain the different tests and examples in the source code repository.


= Details =

In the BIMserver code repository you can find a [http://code.google.com/p/bimserver/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2FTests%2Fsrc%2Forg%2Fbimserver%2Ftests tests directory] in trunk.
In that code you will find some test scrips and examples. Some of these can be interesting for developers and users.
This wiki page will explain some of those examples.

= 1 GuidHighlighter Details =

[http://code.google.com/p/bimserver/source/browse/trunk/Tests/src/org/bimserver/tests/GuidHighlighterTester.java GuidHighlighterTester.java] and [http://code.google.com/p/bimserver/source/browse/trunk/Tests/src/org/bimserver/tests/GuidHighlighter.java GuidHighlighter.java] are both part of an example we created for [http://catenda.no Catenda]. It reads a list of IFC Guids from a csv file. During a download of a model, all objects in that model are turned transparant, except the objects with a guid from the csv file.

= 2 Diff Details = 

[http://code.google.com/p/bimserver/source/browse/trunk/Tests/src/org/bimserver/tests/Diff.java Diff.java] compares two IFC models with each other. When the models are the same, this script gives 100% guarantee. When a difference is found, the script stopts and return the error (and does not continue further).

= 3 will follow =

Other explanations of examples from the Tests trunk will follow later... 